- Network Services and Operation Project

Group: Project 106
Group Members: 
1) Venkata Sai Mukha Chandra Srimanth Bhamidipati
2) Madhukar Reddy Putta
3) Kishore Mothukuru Pushparaj
4) RajaVishnu Dev Venna

Project Description:
In this project, we are using what we learned and implemented from our previous assignments (Network Design and Implementation, Service Deployment and Configuration, Service Monitoring) within Openstack and Various form of Automation.

This project is structured into four main phases: 
1. Deployment
2. Operation
3. Cleanup 
4. Report Writing

Time and Activity Plan:

Week - 1. Deployment Phase. This part will be done by Srimanth and Madhukar Reddy.

a. Network setup:
- Madhukar will handle this stage configuring the essential networking components like networks, routers, subnets, and security groups in the OpenStack environment to ensure smooth communication between various nodes and services.
b. Node provisioning:
- Srimanth will set up the virtual machines needed for the project, such as service nodes, proxy nodes, and a bastion host. This involves 
  launching them, selecting the right specifications, connecting required storage, and configuring them to start working correctly.
c. Service Deployment:
- In this two members(Madhukar and Srimanth) will deploy necessary services onto assigned nodes. This involves installing the service.py 
  application and SNMP daemon on service nodes and setting up the load balancer (HAproxy/NGinx) on proxy nodes.

Week - 2. Operation Phase will be done by Madhukar Reddy and RajaVishnu Dev.

a. Node Monitoring: 
- Madhukar will focus on implementing the monitoring solution on the bastion host.
b. Automatic Scaling:
- RajaVishnu Dev will work on implementing the logic for automatic scaling during the operation phase. This involves continuously monitoring the number of nodes 
  and adjusting the node count based on the desired configuration specified in the servers.conf file.

Week - 3. Cleanup phase. This part will be done by Rajavishnu Dev and Kishore Mothukuru Pushparaj.
a. Resource Release:
-  Kishore Mothukuru Pushparaj will focus on implementing the cleanup logic to release all allocated cloud resources.
b. Validation and Verification:
- RajaVishnu Dev focuses on implementing validation checks to ensure that all resources have been properly released and that the OpenStack 
  environment is in a clean state after the cleanup phase.

Week - 4. Report Writing Phase. 
Kishore Mothukuru Pushparaj and Srimanth Bhamidipati will collaborate on writing the report, adhering to the IEEE Conference Template.



Even though we look like we are doing separately, everyone in our gorup is important and helps out in some way at every step because everything is connected

Our shared GitHub repository serves as a proof to our teamwork, showcasing the collective contributions, code reviews, and discussions that have shaped our project. Additionally, living in the same location facilitates our ability to work closely together, enhancing our efficiency.
